OK so doing this video we're going to be learning about data types somewhat different sort of data.
You can hold in databases so databases can hold lots of different data types and when you create your
tables in your database you're going to have to define which data type.
Each column within that table can hold.
And there's lots of different data types in my to.
Most of them you will never ever use or come across.
So we're not going to look through all of them.
We're just going to look at the most common data types and the most important data types.
So first let's look at numeric data types and the first data type we look at is it's or integer.
And this is for when you need to store Whole numbers.
So 1 2 3 4 0 negative phone numbers as well.
So a good example of a column which would hold whole numbers is in each column.
So for an age column you'd use the in states type and the next data type is the float data type.
And this is when you need decimal numbers.
So for example if you're storing Height's you'll need to use 1.7 meters for example.
So you have to use float data type and you have to define how and how long that number is.
So if you want to store one point seven eight then it's going to be length 3.
So your end here will be three.
And then you also need to define how many numbers go off of the decimal point.
So for 1.70 you need to.
So for 1.70 you can use the data type Flow 3 to and then the Decimal data type.
Now this is almost exactly the same as a float except you can see it for precise decimal numbers whereas
flow is approximate decimal numbers.
So for a flow it will include rounding.
So to for example if you only allow two decimal places in a float but you a number but you try to get
to a number like six to five then it's going around that last number up two or three.
So 6 3 whereas a Decimal data type will not allow rounding.
So you have to tie only two numbers after the decimal place if that's what you've defined.
So decimal one take types are good for like Price columns.
So something is going to be 10 dollars and 25 cents.
You can use decimal for two for the next let's look at the non-numeric data types so we can also store
words or characters in database tables.
So the first data type we look at is chawl and this is for fixed length characters.
So you use the chart data type followed by a number and any value you try and enter into that column
will have to be that length.
So if you had chaw three every single value in that column would have to have a length of three.
So for example would be a currency column where you could have char three followed by USD GBP JPY etc..
And then the next data type is a vulture.
Now this is for varying length characters.
So again you define the value of the data type followed by a number and it would be out to hold any
string length up to that number.
So if you said for chart 10 it could hold any string with a length up to a maximum 10 characters.
So this is good for names first names and last names for for example next data type is that enough data
type.
And this is for holding values from a defined list.
So you can see in the example here we've got enough.
And then f.
So this is for a gender column say male or female and you'll only be out with two per ever and or aneath
in that column it won't accept any of her values.
So you have to define which values this column can hold.
So yeah it's good for GEND columns always good for yes or no columns as well.
And then last no numeric data type we look at is the Boullion and this is for true or false values.
So how true or false and this is good.
For example if you have a product table you can have an in-stock column and that can be set to True
or false based on whether the product is in stock or not.
Now let's look at data and time data types.
So this is for storing dates and time values.
So the first data type is the date and this holds just yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Month month day day.
So this is good for a date of birth.
Columns.
And then the next date type holds the date plus the time so it holds.
Yay yay yay.
Of day day but also holds our hour and minute minute second second.
So this is good if you have an Orders table and you have all the time.
So the time someone placed an order.
You can have.
You can hold this in a date time data type and next time data type.
So this holds hour hour minute minute second second so it's slightly different from timing the date
time data type.
Because this can hold a value which is more than 20 which is more than ninety nine point nine nine hours.
So not just use four times a day.
It can be used for the time between two events.
So if two events took place more than 100 hours between then you can use the time data type.
And then finally we have the year data type.
And this just holds year so year.
Yeah yeah.
And this is good for things like a film release date so the film released in 1985 for example.
So that's it for data types.
Let's move on to primary and foreign keys.